README.md, before:

# Minimalistic Area Card

A minimalistic area card to have a control panel of your house on your dashboard. This card will show numeric sensors with its value, and binary sensors with only the icon. Switches and lights will have their own button that you can tap/click to toggle, or tap/click and hold to see detailed information.

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![License][license-shield]](LICENSE.md)
[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-orange.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/custom-components/hacs)

![Sample preview](docs/sample.png)

Please consider sponsoring if you feel that this project is somehow useful to you.
[![BuyMeCoffee][buymecoffeebadge]][buymecoffee]

## Options

For entity options, see https://www.home-assistant.io/dashboards/entities/#options-for-entities.

For `tap_action` options, see https://www.home-assistant.io/dashboards/actions/.

```yaml
- type: custom:minimalistic-area-card
  title: Living Room
  image: /local/img/living-room.jpg #any image file on /config/www or an absolute image url. optional, it uses area image if area is specified. (optional)
  area: living_room # area id of an existing area defined in HA. (optional)
  background_color: yellow # a color name, rgb hex or rgba function when an image is not provided (optional)
  camera_image: camera.living_room # a camera entity to use as background (optional)
  camera_view: 'auto' # auto, live (optional)
  icon: mdi:sofa
  show_area_icon: true # boolean (optional), default true
  shadow: true # Draws a drop shadow on icons (optional)
  hide_unavailable: false # Hide unavailable entities (optional)
  state_color: true # enable or disable HA colors for all entities
  tap_action:
    action: navigate
    navigation_path: /lovelace/living-room
  entities: #optional, lists area entities automatically if ommited.
    - entity: media_player.living_room_tv
      state_color: false # enable or disable HA colors for this entity
      shadow: true # enable a drop shadow on entity icons to contrast with the background
      darken_image: true # reduce brightness of the background image to constrast with entities
    - entity: switch.fireplace_on_off
    - entity: cover.window_covering
      tap_action:
        action: toggle
    - entity: media_player.speaker
    - entity: light.living_room_lamp
    - entity: sensor.hallway_humidity
    - entity: sensor.hallway_temperature
      color: blue
    - entity: binary_sensor.main_door_opening
      icon: mdi:door
      state_color: true
      state:
        - value: 'on'
          color: green
          icon: mdi:door-open
        - value: 'off'
          color: red
          icon: mdi:door-closed
```

State based settings:

```yaml
state: # array of values
  - value: value # state value to match
    icon: mdi:my-icon" # entity icon used when state match
    color: color # color used when state match
    hide: false # Default false, conditionally hide the entity when state match given value
```

## Templating support (experimental)

You can use experimental support for templating that allows you to create a dynamic value based on the state or other attribute of any entity.
Everything inside `${}` is now evaluated as a template.

Example:

```yaml
entities:
  - entity: climate.bedroom_thermostat_thermostat
    hide: ${return hass.states['input_boolean.heating_season'].state === 'off'}
```

[commits-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/junalmeida/homeassistant-minimalistic-area-card.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits]: https://github.com/junalmeida/homeassistant-minimalistic-area-card/commits/main
[devcontainer]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers
[discord]: https://discord.gg/5e9yvq
[discord-shield]: https://img.shields.io/discord/330944238910963714.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forum-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/community-forum-brightgreen.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io/c/projects/frontend
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/junalmeida/homeassistant-minimalistic-area-card.svg?style=for-the-badge
[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2021.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/junalmeida/homeassistant-minimalistic-area-card.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/junalmeida/homeassistant-minimalistic-area-card/releases
[buymecoffee]: https://www.buymeacoffee.com/junalmeida
[buymecoffeebadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/buy%20me%20a%20coffee-donate-orange?style=plastic&logo=buymeacoffee

Commit message:

[experimental] Expose more variables into templates
Add more variables into templates to simplify templates.

README.md, after:

# Minimalistic Area Card

A minimalistic area card to have a control panel of your house on your dashboard. This card will show numeric sensors with its value, and binary sensors with only the icon. Switches and lights will have their own button that you can tap/click to toggle, or tap/click and hold to see detailed information.

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![License][license-shield]](LICENSE.md)
[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-orange.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/custom-components/hacs)

![Sample preview](docs/sample.png)

Please consider sponsoring if you feel that this project is somehow useful to you.
[![BuyMeCoffee][buymecoffeebadge]][buymecoffee]

## Options

For entity options, see https://www.home-assistant.io/dashboards/entities/#options-for-entities.

For `tap_action` options, see https://www.home-assistant.io/dashboards/actions/.

```yaml
- type: custom:minimalistic-area-card
  title: Living Room
  image: /local/img/living-room.jpg #any image file on /config/www or an absolute image url. optional, it uses area image if area is specified. (optional)
  area: living_room # area id of an existing area defined in HA. (optional)
  background_color: yellow # a color name, rgb hex or rgba function when an image is not provided (optional)
  camera_image: camera.living_room # a camera entity to use as background (optional)
  camera_view: 'auto' # auto, live (optional)
  icon: mdi:sofa
  show_area_icon: true # boolean (optional), default true
  shadow: true # Draws a drop shadow on icons (optional)
  hide_unavailable: false # Hide unavailable entities (optional)
  state_color: true # enable or disable HA colors for all entities
  tap_action:
    action: navigate
    navigation_path: /lovelace/living-room
  entities: #optional, lists area entities automatically if ommited.
    - entity: media_player.living_room_tv
      state_color: false # enable or disable HA colors for this entity
      shadow: true # enable a drop shadow on entity icons to contrast with the background
      darken_image: true # reduce brightness of the background image to constrast with entities
    - entity: switch.fireplace_on_off
    - entity: cover.window_covering
      tap_action:
        action: toggle
    - entity: media_player.speaker
    - entity: light.living_room_lamp
    - entity: sensor.hallway_humidity
    - entity: sensor.hallway_temperature
      color: blue
    - entity: binary_sensor.main_door_opening
      icon: mdi:door
      state_color: true
      state:
        - value: 'on'
          color: green
          icon: mdi:door-open
        - value: 'off'
          color: red
          icon: mdi:door-closed
```

State based settings:

```yaml
state: # array of values
  - value: value # state value to match
    icon: mdi:my-icon" # entity icon used when state match
    color: color # color used when state match
    hide: false # Default false, conditionally hide the entity when state match given value
```

## Templating support (experimental)

You can use experimental support for templating that allows you to create a dynamic value based on the state or other attribute of any entity.
Everything inside `${}` is now evaluated as a template.

Example:

```yaml
entities:
  - entity: climate.bedroom_thermostat_thermostat
    hide: ${return hass.states['input_boolean.heating_season'].state === 'off'}
```

### Variables and types exposes in templates

```
this : MinimalisticAreaCard - card object
hass : HomeAssistant - homeassistant object
state : any - state value of given entity or null
```

[commits-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/junalmeida/homeassistant-minimalistic-area-card.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits]: https://github.com/junalmeida/homeassistant-minimalistic-area-card/commits/main
[devcontainer]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers
[discord]: https://discord.gg/5e9yvq
[discord-shield]: https://img.shields.io/discord/330944238910963714.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forum-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/community-forum-brightgreen.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io/c/projects/frontend
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/junalmeida/homeassistant-minimalistic-area-card.svg?style=for-the-badge
[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2021.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/junalmeida/homeassistant-minimalistic-area-card.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/junalmeida/homeassistant-minimalistic-area-card/releases
[buymecoffee]: https://www.buymeacoffee.com/junalmeida
[buymecoffeebadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/buy%20me%20a%20coffee-donate-orange?style=plastic&logo=buymeacoffee
